in the immortal words
of eminem nowadays everybody wants to
talk like they've got something to say
i'm making this video because i really
have something to say and yeah i see you
out there i see the other vegans trying
to jump on this cattle cullen
controversy
and maybe you managed to drum up some
outrage maybe you managed to drum up
some i don't know random insults
stermindrong but most of you just have
nothing to say
i'm real familiar with these types of
situations
because before i was ever vegan i was a
buddhist i was a member of the orthodox
theravada buddhist faith
and we dealt with exactly these issues
all the time
and before that season one isil mazzard
season zero islamizer isil mizard the
prequel
i was a communist and not by any choice
of my own
i was born and raised to be a communist
in 20th century slang i was what you'd
call a red diaper baby
which is to say my parents raised me
with uh
the works of karl marx lenin and mao
zedong
on the bookshelf i was taught to be a
communist from the cradle to the grave
and instead
i think i was a communist up to about
age 15.
i wouldn't put a precise year on it but
at some point i started i started asking
tough questions
and got my way out of that that mix of
politics and religion
okay among the things that's most
dragging to me in this discourse
surrounding calal
and her ongoing rejection of her fellow
vegans
while claiming to represent the highest
principles of what vegans are supposed
to stand for
is that so many people including kellogg
herself
say that she has just done so much for
the movement
but she's done so much she's done so
much for
she's done so much and then she's
suffered so much
she's suffered the slings and arrows of
controversy she's endured
so much let's keep it all the way real
here people
who has done less who has
suffered less growing up as a communist
i was inured to the expectation
that i like other rebel leaders
would literally live in a cave with a
machine gun
at some point in my life maybe for years
maybe for decades
the assumption of of persecution
um civil war revolution in the proper
sense of the word revolution a lot of
people died with things being
revolutionary without really thinking
what that word means
the assumption that my life in future
as an adult would not be so different
from
i don't know uh people in the caves of
northern vietnam and laos
people who are in fact still fighting at
that time in in some places like
cambodia
still during my childhood the khmer
rouge were still out there cutting
people's heads off by the way
all that was was still going on um you
know
the question of what have you done for
the movement
what have you endured what have you
suffered i came into this game as a
child
as a young adult with with some very
different standards and expectations
right
um in terms of what you do and what you
represent
then when i was a young man an adult but
a young man and i got deeply involved
with buddhism
you know we dealt with this kind of
controversy all the time
because vegetarianism not even veganism
but just vegetarianism
has a sort of controversial
gray area status within buddhism it's
definitely
not official church doctrine to be
vegetarian or vegan
and yet i would have to ask buddhist
monks and buddhist leaders because
sometimes the leaders are not monks
they're laypeople but who become
full-time preachers of buddhism in the
same sense that i'd say someone like
unnatural vegan is a full-time
preacher of veganism um i'd have to ask
them
what credibility do you have giving a
lecture
about the importance of not killing a
fly
the importance of not killing
cockroaches
when you have literally eaten beef
for lunch and then you're gonna go home
and eat
pork or chicken for dinner afterwards
what is the credibility
you have in lecturing on the buddhist
virtues of non-violence which of course
extend to things like war uh but very
often do indeed involve
tiny uh life forms that we you know
if if you're a practicing buddhist i can
remember doing this myself
i'd always keep a ceramic cup that i
would use to trap
insects without harming them and then
put them outside instead of killing them
i can remember when i was doing
humanitarian work in northern laos
one of the greatest struggles when there
was an enormous cockroach
that got inside my suitcase so it was in
there like hiding with
the clothes and my trying to get this
cockroach out of the suitcase without
killing it or without harming it
if you take the precepts of buddhism
seriously
then actually living with and around
insects is one of your greatest problems
in life
but we get in these same questions in
veganism like how can you talk seriously
about not killing animals or not eating
meat or not buying meat
if every day you're buying you know dead
cows that have been cut up and put into
a metal can
so that you can feed it to your cat so
that you can feed your dog these are
tough questions for everyone these are
glaring contradictions a lot of people
live with
but obviously the question for a
buddhist monk
or for a buddhist leader is different
than it is for a private rank-and-file
buddhist
of course one of the reasons there is
exactly that there's someone preaching
these virtues
rather than merely imperfectly trying to
practice these virtues
and the other reality is just the
economics
of where their money comes from sure
somebody like
unnatural vegan i'll come back to
calhoun somebody like a natural vegan
to my knowledge she pays her rent and
she's saving up money to put her kid
through college
on the basis of donations from other
vegans
so why would it be too much to ask
for her to strictly and assiduously
follow a vegan diet
and to i don't know talk in a consistent
and coherent way about
vegan ethics to kind of live up to the
bare minimum standard of veganism
in both principle and practice now
within the buddhist religion there's
actually another really important
parallel here
about monks living up to the standards
they preach
and that is celibacy now obviously it
takes a little bit of imagination to see
how this applies to veganism as opposed
to just talking about
monks eating eating cow meat within
buddhism
uh eating cow meat while preaching that
you shouldn't harm a fly
um if you really believe
in the core philosophy of buddhism it's
very clear that at least buddhism 1.0
real buddhism historically actual
buddhism is is utterly based on
glorifying
a life of celibacy and that this life of
celebi
the life of celibacy results from a
profound realization
that in the words of the canon the words
the ancient scripture
results in you tearing up desire by its
roots
so after you have this realization
you're no longer going to feel this kind
of desire you're not
going to go going to want to have sex
and then you're going to live in
celibacy
uh as a result how can a buddhist monk
receive donations and you know pay for
all the things he has in life
and let's face it in the 21st century
most buddhist monks do live
with the comforts of the modern world
they're not living in a cave
they're not living in a cave like a
communist revolutionary they're also not
living in the cave like an ancient monk
from
years ago they're not living this kind
of simple humble life there are monks
who
own cars have a driver's license there
are monks who have cell phones and
computers and all this kind of thing um
but how are you going to receive these
donations
and preach this philosophy um when you
are yourself
seducing and having sex with your
followers
when you are seducing and having sex
with let's say other men's wives married
women
or i mean in some ways it's it's more
damaging if you're talking about them
seducing and having sex with
younger women who've never been married
these are
circumstances that in some cases tear
buddhist communities apart
there was one buddhist monk in toronto
i am not going to use his name but he
was willing to publicly talk about the
way in which his sex life had really
interfered with his
his buddhist practice i remember an
article written by him
so not out accusations go against him
where he said in a very down-to-earth
way that he was celibate for a certain
period of his life
then he fell in love with one of the
women who was one of his followers a
woman he was teaching meditation to
and i believe they got married and then
a couple years later they got divorced
and then he was
unsure if he should just openly like
date his followers
or if he should go back to living in
celibacy and you know he talked about
kind of his next girlfriend or wife
after that and so on
uh you know i can remember him i
remember this one particular
uh and he was an asian monk he wasn't uh
he wasn't a white man uh living in
toronto and talking about the ins and
outs of this
the problem is not dating itself the
problem is not
sex itself and the problem is not the
same
if you are a buddhist monk or if you are
just a follower
if you're one of the donors at the
church if you're one of the donors and
you happen to meet and date
other women who are there as donors you
know that situation is completely
different
from being a leader an authority figure
and someone who is
the recipient of those donations
especially in the
context where the philosophy you're
preaching is exactly one of tearing up
desire
by its roots and then moving on beyond
sexual desire to to live in celibacy and
attain nirvana and these things now look
i don't know what the future holds your
buddhism
it's very obvious that something like
buddhism 2.0 has got to come
up there's got to be a form of reformed
buddhism that gets rid of some aspects
of their religion that don't really work
in the 21st century
like the belief in hell the belief in
the afterlife generally the belief in
demons and yetis
uh magical things if buddhism is going
to survive into the 22nd century they're
gonna have to be
changes and there was a time when i
thought i might play my role as that
kind of reformer
intellectual leader in buddhism at this
moment
doesn't seem to be on my on my list of
priorities
uh there already are terms out there
for what kell is and
she's preferring to try to change the
definition of veganism
and you know keep her cards close to her
chest about what she believes what she
preaches and what she practices
because she doesn't like any other terms
that are already out there
you know what kalel is is a fake vegan
now i wish i could follow that up by
saying and that's okay
the problem is precisely that she's
someone who put herself in the position
of a leader of a public figure um
i can't say if she received donations
from this i think she just makes enough
money off of her youtube channel
directly
that she doesn't solicit donations for
veganism as a cause
but she has very much played the card of
presenting herself
as a murderer which is really absurd and
grotesque
and shameful especially in the context
of this controversy
she herself is saying that she has done
so much for veganism
that she has suffered so much for
veganism
uh now again
who has suffered less
for any movement that tried to change
the world
in the history of the world the leaders
of the gay rights movement
african-american leaders of the civil
rights movement
the movement to abolish slavery again
communist revolutionaries living in the
jungle with their
you know machine guns student protesters
in myanmar who wanted to replace a
military dictatorship with a democracy
i read the autobiography of one of those
guys and he really did literally live in
the jungle
with you know a machine gun and a
machete
tough life um
who has suffered less and in calel's
case
indeed you know it deserves to be asked
who has done less what is it that she
imagines
she's done for this movement
looking at her instagram i can see she
did a photo shoot
where she was posing with a chicken and
this is an example of her
her vegan activism so she got dressed up
in fancy clothes in a corset
and had a professional photographer take
a picture of her holding a chicken
and she preaches some kind of vegan
virtues next to it
well how would you feel if this were a
buddhist monk
and he were in the same pose or what
have you
uh there are buddhist monks who have
instagram or other
blogs or profiles or these things and
the buddhist monk
is preaching celibacy but you know
he's sleeping with his followers how
would you feel if it was a buddhist monk
preaching non-violence but you know that
he's eating
beef for lunch how would you feel
if you know that it's a self-appointed
leaguer
leader of the vegan movement a
self-appointed leader
who does not have the fortitude or
self-discipline
to even refuse buying popcorn
and a movie theater when she knows that
it's covered with butter
to refuse to buy a chocolate bar or a
doughnut
that she knows is not vegan
that's the situation that we're in with
kell and
i don't think this is the last challenge
veganism is going to face
from within this way i'd like to follow
this up immediately by recording a video
where i talk a little bit about the
progress of the movement
and in that context it's always
important to point back to what a low
point we were at
the meteor of the vegan movement
with a guy named peter singer peter
singer is not the start
of the vegan movement but he was a major
famous leader for veganism
who utterly undermined and contradicted
the most basic tenets and principles of
veganism
i'll get into that in another video now
likewise you can say buddhism has had to
endure having buddhist monks who utterly
undermine and contradict
the most basic principles and tenets of
buddhism
this is a struggle however it may be
that veganism is going to make progress
in this world
it's not going to be by selling out
its own tenants its own principles it's
not going to be by making hypocrites of
ourselves
that we convince the rest of the world
to step up
and take on this higher level of moral
responsibility
all right guys as i say i come at this
from a very different angle from other
vegans
there are people who got into veganism
in the first place just because they
were interested in health
beauty and weight loss that's very very
different from approaching this from the
perspective of somebody who was raised
to be a communist revolutionary
later in life got very skeptical about
what communism was
that really entailed but then who came
out of that still wanting to make
a fundamentally positive difference in
the world still caring about
poverty and the plight of the poor and
the aftermath
and effects of devastating wars that
america had engaged in that other
countries
engaged in too um you know of wanting to
make the world a better place
but of knowing how deeply wrong um the
ultimately violent methods
offered by communism were who then got
involved with history and politics of
asia
languages of asia through buddhism and
then relatively late in life
after the failure of a number of
different attempts at ways of making the
world a better place
i'm someone for whom veganism emerged as
my
as my primary identity as my primary
form of activism
and it's the form of activism for which
i'm now planning to go back to college
get another college degree
devote more of my time and yet
again i'm not the one out here
saying that i've suffered so much i
don't think i
suffer when i refuse to eat popcorn or
refuse to eat a chocolate bar
to me that is absolutely surreal
i'm not even out here saying that i
suffer when other vegans threatened to
murder me explicitly murder me in other
threats have me beaten up in the streets
dragged to the police station
face false charges i have in this sense
stood up to persecution
of a much more literal and direct kind
and not persecution from the meat
industry
not persecution from dairy farmers other
vegans
rival vegan activists rival vegan
leaders in the vegan movement did this
to me
right and all i've got to say is from my
perspective coming from my background
who has suffered less
kalel i'd love to say
that you have a lot to offer veganism in
the future
but i'd be lying to you if i said that
kalel i'd love to say to you
that i don't judge you by your past
actions and your past mistakes
and that i instead judge you by your
future potential
to do good to do something positive for
the moment
but here's the reality kell
cullen sorry she her nickname of the
internet caleb
kitten is somebody who puts
absolutely all of her time
effort and energy into her physical
appearance
and the beauty of the interior decor of
her apartment
so that she can marry a rich man
she slept her way into youtube she slept
her way
into fame and she is planning to sleep
out of youtube she has repeatedly slowed
down or stopped making youtube videos
because she thought she finally found a
man who had those properties a man she
could
marry who would then take care of her
and
she's repeatedly lost those
relationships broken off those
engagements for marriage
etc so everyone knows this she stopped
making youtube videos because she found
some guy who was allegedly gonna marry
her buy her a house
etc um
if this were true of myself as a man
let's let's just step back and look at
this in terms of gender equality
if i were a man who devoted all of my
time
to my physical appearance through
exercise
diet and plastic surgery because oh yes
i believe
cullen by her own count has had more
than eight
plastic surgery procedures before she's
turned 30.
by age 29 she's had many many plastic
surgery procedures
if i devoted all of my time and energy
to my physical appearance
exercise diet plastic surgery
makeup hair and
the affectations of outward beauty
involving designer purses designer shoes
the interior decoration of my apartment
and makeup
and if i did all this as a man
with the explicit purpose of one day
seducing
and settling down with a woman who was
wealthy enough
to take care of me what would what would
your opinion be of me
as a man how would you judge me
in those circumstances and how would you
judge me
as a potential political leader
for the vegan movement or for any
movement
i think the judgment would be incredibly
harsh and we haven't
yet reached the point in terms of the
sophistication
of our cultural response to gender
inequality where it even occurs to us
to look at calal cullen khalil kitten
and judge here by the same standard in
the same way
all right guys i had something to say
and now i am out